## Results

### Journal rankings differ between fields

In an attempt to quantify the relative importance of journals, scientists have created rankings using metrics the Journal Impact Factor, which is essentially based on citations per article, and those that rely on more complex representations like Eigenfactor [@doi:10.5860/crln.68.5.7804]. 
It has previously been reported that journal rankings differ substantially between fields using metrics based on citation numbers [@doi:10.1007/s11192-022-04402-w].
We calculated a PageRank-based score for the journal as the median PageRank of manuscripts published in that journal for that field (Fig. @fig:journal A).
We first sought to understand the extent to which journal ranking differences replicated using PageRank.

To begin, we compared the differences in ranking between the top fifty journals in nanotechnology and their corresponding ranks in microscopy.
While the ranks were somewhat correlated there was a great deal of variance, especially for journals outside the top 20 in nanotechnology (Fig. @fig:journal B).
We then made use of the scale of the data by examining the top ranked journal in each of our 45 fields to determine whether the top ranking journal would be consistent across fields (Fig. @fig:journal C).
We found that the most common top-ranked journal was *Science*.
This was unsurprising, given that it tends to rank highly among global journal level metrics such as eigenfactor.
However, the ranking was very field-dependent, with only 20% of fields having *Science* as their top ranked journal.

One could argue that while general journals may have differing influence by field, specialty journals correspond to a single field so field-aware metrics are irrelevant.
That turns out to be untrue.
Of the 5,178 journals with at least 50 articles present in our dataset, the median number of fields publishing in a given journal is 15 (Fig. @fig:journal D).
This result confirms that while useful [@carlsson2009], MeSH headings reflect a different type of aggregation than journals do [@doi:10.1007/s11192-016-2119-7].

![ 
Journals' PageRank derived rankings differ between fields. 
A) A schematic showing how paired networks are derived from the full citation network.
B) A comparison of the ranks of the top 50 journals by PageRank in nanotechnology and their rank in microscopy. 
Top-50 nanotechnology journals with no papers in microscopy have been omitted.
C) The frequency with which journals in the dataset are the top journal for a field.
D) The distribution of fields published per journal. 
The X-axis corresponds to the number of fields for which a journal has at least one paper within the field.
All plots restrict the set of journals to those with at least 50 papers in the dataset.

](./images/journal_fig.png ){#fig:journal width="100%"}

### Manuscript PageRanks differ between fields
We split the citation network into its component fields and calculated the PageRank for each article (Fig. @fig:distribution A).
We then examined the distribution of PageRanks across fields and found that they differed greatly (Fig. @fig:distribution B).
These differences were driven by the size and citation practices of the fields themselves, as the papers shared by pairs of fields had distributions matching the field context they were in (Fig. @fig:distribution B, C).
Given the differences in distributions in articles shared by these fields (Fig. @fig:distribution D), we found it difficult to determine whether correspondance between fields was random or due to different degrees of interest in certain articles (Fig. @fig:distribution E).

![ 
Differences in the distribution of PageRanks between fields.
A) A schematic showing how field pairs are split and their PageRanks are calculated.
B) The distribution of article PageRanks for nanotechnology and microscopy. 
The distributions marked with 'All' contain all the papers for the given field in the dataset, while those marked 'overlapping' contain only articles present in both fields.
C) The empirical cumulative density functions of nanotechnology and microscopy.
D) The differences in distribution of the PageRanks of articles shared by nanotechnology and microscopy.
E) A density plot showing the joint distribution of PageRanks for papers overlapping in nanotechnology and microscopy.
](./images/distribution_fig.png ){#fig:distribution width="100%"}

### Fields' differences are not solely driven by differences in citation practices
We devised a strategy to generate an empirical null for a field pair under the assumption that the field pair represented a single, homogenous field (Fig. @fig:percentile A).
For each field-pair intersection, we performed a degree-distribution preserving permutation.
We created 100 permuted networks for each field pair.
We then split the networks into their constituent fields and calculated a percentile using the number of permuted networks with a lower PageRank for a manuscript than the true PageRank.
A manuscript with a PageRank higher than all networks has a percentile of 100, and one lower than all permuted networks has a percentile of zero. 
We used the difference in the percentile in each field as the field-specific affinity for a given paper.
This percentile score allowed us to control for the differing degree distributions between fields by comparing papers based on their expected PageRank in a random network with the same node degrees.

We selected field pairs with varying degrees of correlation between their PageRanks (Fig. @fig:percentile B).
By examining the fields' PageRank percentiles, we found that many articles had large differences in their perception between fields (Fig. @fig:percentile C).
In nanotechnology and microscopy, papers with high nanotechnology percentiles and low microscopy percentiles tended towards applications of nanotechnology, while their counterparts with high microscopy percentiles and low nanotechnology percentiles were often papers about technological developments in microscopy (Fig. @fig:percentile A, Table 1).
Immunochemistry-favored papers are largely applications of immunochemical methods, while anatomy-favored articles tend to focus experiments on a single anatomical region (Fig. @fig:percentile B, Table 2).
Proteomics and metabolomics tend to use similar methods, so the fields on either end are largely (though not entirely) field-specific applications of those methods (Fig. @fig:percentile C, Table 3).
Computational biology is similarly applications-focused, though human genetics tends towards policy papers due to its MeSH heading (H01.158.273.343.385) excluding fields like genomics, population genetics, and microbial genetics (Fig. @fig:percentile D, Table 4).
In addition to papers with large differences between fields, each field also has papers with high PageRanks and similar percentiles in both fields.
Overall it is clear that while some papers may be influential in multiple fields, others have more field-specific import.

It is not possible to describe all the field-pairs and relevant differences between fields within the space of a journal article.
Instead, we have developed a web server that displays the percentiles for all pairs of fields in our dataset with at least 1000 shared articles (Fig. @fig:percentile D), which can be accessed at https://www.indices.greenelab.com.
We hope that the availability of the web server and the reproducibility of our code will assist other scientists in uncovering new insights from this dataset.

![ 
Field-specific preferences in papers.
A) A schematic showing how networks are shuffled and how articles' percentile scores are calculated.
The histograms at the bottom of the figure correspond to the distribution of PageRanks for the shuffled networks, while the red lines correspond to an article's PageRank in the true citation network.
B) The Pearson correlation of PageRanks between fields. 
The red points are the field pairs expanded in panel C.
C) The percentile scores and PageRanks for overlapping articles in various fields. 
Points are colored based on the difference in percentile scores in the fields e.g. "Nanotechnology-Microscopy" corresponds to the difference between the nanotechnology and microscopy percentile scores.
The numbers next to points are the reference number for the article in the bibliography.
D) A screenshot of the webserver showing the percentile score difference and journal median PageRank plot functionality.
](./images/percentile_figure.png ){#fig:percentile width="100%"}

| Nanotechnology Percentile | Microscopy Percentile | Title | Reference |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| 100 | 4  | A robust DNA mechanical device controlled by hybridization topology | [@doi:10.1038/415062a] |
| 100 | 5  | Bioadhesive poly(methyl methacrylate) microdevices for controlled drug delivery | [@doi:10/c7fpg4] |
| 99  | 2  | DNA-templated self-assembly of protein arrays and highly conductive nanowrires | [@doi:10.1126/science.1089389] |
| 0   | 100| Photostable luminescent nanoparticles as biological label for cell recognition of system lupus erythematosus patients | [@doi:10.1166/jnn.2002.105] |
| 5   | 90 | WSXM: a software for scanning probe microscopy and a tool for nanotechnology | [@horcas2007wsxm] |
| 0   | 77 | Measuring Distances in Supported Bilayers by Fluorescence Interference-Contrast Microscopy: Polymer Supports and SNARE Proteins | [@doi:10/dqsg2c] |
| 100 | 99 | Toward fluorescence nanoscopy | [@doi:10.1038/nbt895] |
| 100 | 86 | In vivo imaging of quantum dots encapsulated in phospholipid micelles | [@doi:10.1126/science.1077194]|
| 100 | 99 | Water-Soluble Quantum Dots for Multiphoton Fluorescence Imaging in Vivo | [@doi:10.1126/science.1083780]|

**Table 1**: Nanotechnology/microscopy papers of interest 

| Immunochemistry Percentile| Anatomy Percentile | Title | Reference |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| 100 | 45 | Immunoelectron microscopic exploration of the Golgi complex | [@immunoelectron] |
| 100 | 14 | Immunocytochemical and electrophoretic analyses of changes in myosin gene expression in cat posterior temporalis muscle during postnatal development | [@doi:10.1007/bf01682147] |
| 98 | 5 | Electron microscopic demonstration of calcitonin in human medullary carcinoma of thyroid by the immuno gold staining method | [@doi:10.1007/bf00514331] |
| 12 | 100 | Grafting genetically modified cells into the rat brain: characteristics of E. coli β-galactosidase as a reporter gene | [@doi:10/dptnbm] |
| 12 | 100 | Vitamin-D-dependent calcium-binding-protein and parvalbumin occur in bones and teeth | [@doi:10.1007/bf02405306] |
| 3 | 100 | Mapping of brain areas containing RNA homologous to cDNAs encoding the alpha and beta subunits of the rat GABAA gamma-aminobutyrate receptor | [@doi:10.1073/pnas.85.20.7815] |
| 100 | 100 | Studies of the HER-2/neu Proto-Oncogene in Human Breast and Ovarian Cancer| [@her2] |
| 100 | 100 | Expression of c-fos Protein in Brain: Metabolic Mapping at the Cellular Level| [@doi:10.1126/science.3131879] |
| 100 | 100 | Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) immunolocalization in paraffin sections: An index of cell proliferation with evidence of deregulated expression in some neoplasms| [@doi:10.1126/science.3131879] |

**Table 2**: Immunochemistry/anatomy papers of interest 

| Proteomics Percentile | Metabolomics Percentile | Title | Reference |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| 67 | 2 | Proteomics Standards Initiative: Fifteen Years of Progress and Future Work | [@doi:10.1021/acs.jproteome.7b00370] |
| 99 | 0 | Limited Environmental Serine and Glycine Confer Brain Metastasis Sensitivity to PHGDH Inhibition | [@doi:10.1158/2159-8290.cd-19-1228] |
| 100 | 0 | A high-throughput processing service for retention time alignment of complex proteomics and metabolomics LC-MS data| [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btr094 ] |
| 0 | 100 | MeltDB: a software platform for the analysis and integration of metabolomics experiment data| [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btn452] |
| 0 | 98 | In silico fragmentation for computer assisted identification of metabolite mass spectra| [@doi:10.1186/1471-2105-11-148] |
| 0 | 100 | The Metabonomic Signature of Celiac Disease| [@doi:10.1021/pr800548z] |
| 91 | 70 | Visualization of omics data for systems biology| [@doi:10.1186/1471-2105-11-148] |
| 0 | 16 | FunRich: An open access standalone functional enrichment and interaction network analysis tool| [@doi:10.1002/pmic.201400515] |
| 0 | 5 | Proteomic and Metabolomic Characterization of COVID-19 Patient Sera| [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.05.032] |

**Table 3**: Proteomics/metabolomics papers of interest 

| Computational Biology Percentile | Human Genetics Percentile | Title | Reference |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| 99 | 0 | Development of Human Protein Reference Database as an Initial Platform for Approaching Systems Biology in Humans| [@doi:10.1101/gr.1680803] |
| 100 | 1 | A database for post-genome analysis| [@doi:10/cfgb98] |
| 100 | 1 | Use of mass spectrometry-derived data to annotate nucleotide and protein sequence databases| [@doi:10/ch565r] |
| 12 | 100| Genetic Discrimination: Perspectives of Consumers | [@doi:10.1126/science.274.5287.621] |
| 0 | 81 | Committee Opinion No. 690: Carrier Screening in the Age of Genomic Medicine | [@committee] |
| 23 | 100 | Public health genomics: The end of the beginning| [@doi:10.1097/gim.0b013e31821024ca] |
| 100 | 99 | Initial sequencing and analysis of the human genome| [@doi:10.1038/35057062] |
| 100 | 100 | An STS-Based Map of the Human Genome| [@doi:10.1126/science.270.5244.1945] |
| 100 | 100 | A New Five-Year Plan for the U.S. Human Genome Project| [@doi:10.1126/science.8211127] |

**Table 4**: Computational biology/human genetics papers of interest 

